## Section I: Group theory
Solve two of the following three problems.  

### Problem 1 – Group of Order 36
[[Problem – Group of Order 36]]
### Problem 2 – Proper Subgroup and Union of Conjugates
[[Problem – Proper Subgroup and Union of Conjugates]]
### Problem 3 #unfinished
Let $p$ be an odd prime, $G$ a [[Group|group]] of [[Order|order]] $p(p+1)$, and $P$ a [[Sylow p-Subgroup|Sylow]] $p$-subgroup of $G$. Assume that $P$ is **not [[Normal Subgroup|normal]]** in $G$.

(a) Prove that the [[Centralizer & Normalizer|normalizer]] of $P$ in $G$ is exactly $P$
(b) Let $P=\langle t\rangle$ and $a$ an element of order $2$ in $G$ (such an element exists because $p+1$ is even). Prove that the elements
$$a, tat\inv,t^2at^{-2}, \dots, t^{p-1}at^{-(p-1)}$$ are all distinct.

##### *Proof.*
Let $p$ be an odd prime, $G$ a group of order $p(p+1)$, and $P$ a Sylow $p$-subgroup of $G$ that is not normal in $P$. 

###### Part (a)
First, by [[Theorem – Main Theorem of Sylow Theory|Sylow's Theorem]] we see that $n_p=p+1$. So there are $(p-1)(p+1)=p^2-1$ elements of order $p$, and $|G|=p^2+p$. So there are $p+1$ elements left. 

Let $G$ [[Group Action|act]] on $\Syl_p(G)$ by conjugation. The normalizer of $P$ is the set $N_G(P)=\{g\in G|gPg\inv=P\}$, which is exactly the stabilizer of $P$ under this action.

Let $x\in P$, and observe $xPx\inv=P$, so $x\in N_G(P)$, and $P\subseteq N_G(P)$. 

The conjugation action on Sylow subgroups is [[Transitive Action|transitive]] by Part (2) of Sylow's Theorem, and thus there is exactly one [[Orbit|orbit]] under this action. By [[Corollary – Orbit-Stabilizer Theorem|Orbit-Stabilizer]] we have $|G|=|\Orb(x)|\cdot|\Stab(x)|$, and thus $|\Stab(x)|=p+1$ for every $x\in P$. However, $p$ of these elements are accounted for by $P$ and the last element is the identity, thus the only elements of $N_G(P)$ are those in $P$. 
***
###### Part (b)
Let $P=\langle t\rangle$, $a$ be an element of order $2$ in $G$, and $n<,m\leq p-1$. Suppose by way of contradiction that $t^nat^{-n}=t^mat^{-m}$. By strategic multiplication we see $a=t^kat^{-k}$, where $k=m-n$. Thus we can reduce to the case where As $a=t^kat^{-k}$ for some$k\leq p-1$. 

As $a$ has order two, it is contained in some Sylow $2$-subgroup of $G$. Since $P=\langle t\rangle$ we have $t^k=x$ for some $x\in P$. Notice then that $a=xax\inv$ means that $x=axa\inv$, placing $a\in N_G(x)$, contradicting the fact that $a\not\in P$, as it does not have order $3$. Thus $a$ is distinct from $t^kat^{-k}$ for all $k\leq p-1$. If any two powers of 
***
## Section II: Field Theory  
Solve two of the following three problems.  
### Problem 4 #unfinished
Let $F$ be a field and $F^*$ its group of units. 

(a) Prove that any finite subgroup of $F^*$ is cyclic.
(b) Suppose that $F$ is algebraically closed that has characteristic $p>0$. For any positive integer $n$, prove that $F^*$ has a subgroup of order $n$ if and only if $p$ does not divide $n$. 

##### *Proof.*
Let $F$ be a field and $F^*$ its group of units. 

###### Part (a) 
Let $G$ be a finite subgroup of $F^*$. Let $|G|=n$. 

Let $k$ be the LCM of all orders of elements in $G$. Then $g^k=1$ and thus $g$ is a root of the polynomial $x^k-1$ for all $g\in G$. By Lagrange's Theorem every element divides $n$, and so we have $k\leq n$. However, by the Factor Theorem the polynomial $x^k-1$ can have at most $k$ roots, and we have $n$ distinct elements, and thus we have $k=n$. Thus there must exist an element of order $n$ in $G$, making $G$ cyclic, as desired.
***
###### Part (b) 
Let $n\in\N$ and suppose that $F$ has characteristic $p>0$ and is algebraically closed.

First, suppose by way of contradiction that $F^*$ has a subgroup of order $n$, $G$, and $p|n$. From Part (a) $G$ is cyclic and generated by some $x$ such that $|x|=n$. However, as $p|n$ we see that $x^p=0$, given that we are in an additive group. This contradicts the fact that $n$ is the smallest number such that $x^n=0$. 

Now we proceed via the contrapositive. Suppose $F^*$ does not have a subgroup of order $n$. Then there cannot exist a unit $x$ such that $|x|=n$. Consider the polynomial $x^n-1$. As $F$ is algebraically closed there exists some root $r\in F$. (how do we know this isn't 1???) Notice that this means $r^n=1$ and so $r$ is a unit in $F$. As $r$ cannot have order $n$, it must have an order that divides $n$. We also know that $r^p=1$ as we are in a field of characteristic $p$. Thus $|r|$ either divides $p$ or is $p$. 
Either there is a non-identity root of $x^n-1=(x-1)^n$. Note that in this case $n>p$ as we are
***
### Problem 5 #unfinished
Let $E$ be a subfield of $\C$ and suppose every element of $E$ is a root of a polynomial of degree $10$ in $\Q[x]$. Prove that $[E:\Q]\leq 10$. (Note: $E$ is not assumed to be a finite extension of $\Q$.)

##### *Proof*.
Let $E$ be a subfield of $\C$ and suppose every element of $E$ is a root of a polynomial of degree $10$ in $\Q[x]$. 

Let $a\in E$ and consider $\Q(a)$. There exists some degree $10$ polynomial $f$ such that $f(a)=0$. If $f$ is monic and irreducible then it is the minimum polynomial of $a$ and thus $[\Q(a):\Q]=10$. 
***
### Problem 6 #unfinished
Let $\omega$ be a primitive $25$th root of unity.
(a) Find $[\Q(\omega):\Q]$ and generator(s) for $\Gal(\Q(\omega)/\Q))$. 
(b) Draw the subfield lattice for $\Q(\omega)$ and indicate the degrees of each extension. (You do not have to find generators for each of the subfields)

##### *Proof*.
Let $\omega$ be a primitive $25$th root of unity.

###### Part(a)
As $\omega$ is a $25$th root of unity we see that $\omega^{25}=1$ and thus that it is the root of the polynomial $f(x)=x^{25}-1\in\Q[x]$. We can factor out an $(x-1)$ from $f(x)$ to see $f(x)=(x-1)(x^{24}+x^{23}+\dots+x+1)$, and thus $\omega$ is a root of $g(x)=(x^{24}+x^{23}+\dots+x+1)$ as well. Notice that the content of $g(x)=1$, and thus by Gauss's Lemma $g(x)$ is irreducible in $\Q[x]$ if and only if it is irreducible in $\Z[x]$. 
***
###### Part(b)
***
## Section III: Fields and Galois Theory
Solve two of the following three problems.
### Problem 7 – May 2017 (4b)
[[Problem – May 2017 (4b)]]
### Problem 8 #empty


(a) 
(b) 

##### *Proof*.
###### Part (a)
***
###### Part (b)
***
### Problem 9 – Transpose Similarity
[[Problem – Transpose Similarity]]