## Section I: Group theory
Solve two of the following three problems.  
### Problem 1 – Normal p-Subgroup in Sylow Subgroups
[[Problem – Normal p-Subgroup in Sylow Subgroups]]
### Problem 2 – Group of Order $p^2q$
[[Problem – Group of Order p2q]]
### Problem 3 – Stabilizer and Internal Direct Product
[[Problem – Stabilizer and Internal Direct Product]]
## Section II: Field Theory  
Solve two of the following three problems.  
### Problem 4 – Algebraic Extensions are Transitive 
[[Problem – Algebraic Extensions are Transitive]]
### Problem 5 #unfinished
Let $\zeta$ denote a primitive $17$th root of unity, over $\Q$.
(a) Prove that $\Q(\zeta)/\Q$ is a Galois extension, of degree $16$
(b) Describe an explicit isomorphism $\Z/16 \to\Gal(\Q(\zeta)/\Q).$
(c) Describe a primitive generator for the fixed subfield of the sub-  
group $\Z/4$ of $\Gal(\Q(\zeta)/\Q)$. 

##### *Proof*.
###### Part (a)
Notice $\zeta$ is a root of the polynomial $x^{17}-1$, and we can factor out an $(x-1)$ to see that $\zeta$ is a root of the cyclotomic polynomial $f(x)=x^{16}+x^{15}+\dots+x+1$. Thanks to Mark, this is a monic irreducible polynomial in $\Q[x]$, making $f$ the minimal polynomial of $\zeta$, and thus the degree of the extension is $16$. 
***
###### Part (b)
Let $\varphi:\Z/16\to\Gal(\Q(\zeta)/\Q)$ be defined by $f(x)=$
***
###### Part (c)
***
### Problem 6 #unfinished
Let $K/F$ be a finite Galois field extension, $G = \Gal(K/F)$, and $n = |G|$.  
Let $\alpha$ be an element of $K$ and $m(x)$ its minimal polynomial over $F$ ; set  
$d = \deg m(x)$.

(a) Prove there are $d$ distinct elements in the set $\{\s(\alpha) | \sigma \in G\}$.
(b) Prove $$\prod_{\s\in G} (x-\s(\alpha))=m(x)^{n/d}$$
##### *Proof*.
Let $K/F$ be a finite Galois field extension, $G = Gal(K/F)$, and $n = |G|$.  
Let $\alpha$ be an element of $K$ and $m(x)$ its minimal polynomial over $F$ ; set  
$d = \deg m(x)$.

###### Part (a)
Suppose there exist $\s1,\s2\in G$ such that $\s1(\alpha)=\s2(\alpha)$. 
***
###### Part (b)
***
## Section III: Ring Theory and Linear Algebra
Solve two of the following three problems.
### Problem 7 #unfinished 
Let $V$ be a finite dimensional vector space over a field $F$ and $f : V\to V$ an  
$F$-linear transformation. Prove the following assertions.

(a) There exists an integer $s \geq 0$ such that for $n \geq s$ there are equalities $$\ker(f^n) = \ker(f^s) \text{ and } \im(f^{n) =}\im(f^s).$$(Here $f^m$ denotes $f$ composed with itself $m$ times.) 
(b) $\ker(f^s) \cap \im(f^s) = \{0\}$ for any $s$ as above.
(c) $V = \ker(f^s) \oplus \im(f^s)$ for any s as above. (Recall $V = U \oplus W$ for subspaces $U$ and $W$ if $U + W = V$ and $U\cap W = \{0\}$. )

##### *Proof*.
###### Part (a)
***
###### Part (b)
***
### Problem 8 #unfinished
The trace of a square matrix $A$, denoted $Tr(A)$, is the sum of its diagonal  
entries. Prove the following assertions.

(a) $Tr(AB) = Tr(BA)$ for any $n \times n$ matrices $A, B$.
(b) Use (a) to prove that the trace of a matrix $A$ over $\C$ is the sum  
of its eigenvalues (with multiplicities).

##### *Proof.*
###### Part (a) 
Let $A,B$ be $n\times n$ matrices. 
***
###### Part (b) 
Let $A$ be a matrix in $\C$. Eigenvalues are the roots of $\cp_A(x)$, which is the determinant of the matrix $A-xI$. Every matrix $A$ is similar to a matrix in Rational Canonical Form, and similar matrices share invariant factors and thus characteristic polynomials, the roots of which are the eigenvalues of the matrix. 
***
### Problem 9 – Annihilator Ideal and Quotient Field
[[Problem – Annihilator Ideal and Quotient Field]]