## Section I: Group theory
Solve two of the following three problems.  

### Problem 1 #unfinished
Let $p$ be a prime.
(a) Prove that every group of order $p^2$ is abelian. (Provide as many details as  
you can, but you may use main theorems – such as Lagrange’s Theorem or the Class  
Equation – without proof.)
(b) Prove that there exists a non-abelian group of order $p^3$ for any prime $p$.  
(You may use facts about automorphism groups here without proof, although they  
should be clearly stated.)

##### *Proof.*
Let $p$ be a prime. 

###### Part (a)
Show the center is non-trivial, and thus has order $p$ or $p^2$. If $p^2$ then $Z(G)=G$ and we're done. If $|Z(G)|=p$, then the Class Equation tells us $p^2=p+\sum[G:C_G(g)]$. Since $|G|=p^2$, $C_G(g)=1,p$ for each $g\not\in Z(G)$. But there are $p$ elements, so there is only one conjugacy class for these elements. But since $g\not\in Z(G)$ there exists some $x\in G$ such that $gx\neq xg$, and thus $xgx\inv\neq g$. Since $x$ is not in the center and $x$ is not in the conjugacy class of $g$, we have a contradiction. 

Alternatively, $G/Z(G)$ has $p$ elements, making it cyclic. 
***
###### Part (b)
Consider $H=C_p$ and $K=C_{p^2}$. Consider the external semidirect product $H\sdp_\rho K$, where $\rho: K\to\Aut(H)$.
***
### Problem 2 #unfinished
Let $G$ be a group of order $2m$ for some odd integer $m > 1$. Let $\Perm(G)$ be the group  
of permutations on the elements of $G$ (i.e., the group of bijective functions from G to G). You may use without proof that $\Perm(G)\cong S_{2m}$.

(a) Let $f : G → \Perm(G)$ be given by $f (g) = λg$ for all $g ∈ G$, where $λg : G → G$ is defined by $λg(a) = ga$ for all $a ∈ G$. Prove that $f$ is an injective group homomorphism.
(b) Prove that if $g ∈ G$ is an element of order $2$ then $λg$ is a product of $m$ transpositions.
(c) Prove $G$ contains a subgroup of index $2$ and is consequently not simple. (Tip: Consider the inverse image under $f$ of the subgroup of $\Perm(G)$ consisting of the even permutations.)

##### *Proof.*
###### Part (a)
***
###### Part (b)
***
###### Part (c)
***
### Problem 3 – Normalizer of Normalizer of Sylow Group
[[Problem – Normalizer of Normalizer of Sylow Group]]
## Section II: Ring Theory and Module theory
Solve two of the following three problems.  
### Problem 4 – Special Case of Sun Tzu's Theorem
[[Problem – Special Case of Sun Tzu's Theorem]]
### Problem 5 #unfinished
Let $R$ be a non-zero, unital ring, and let $R^m$ and $R^n$ be the standard free left $R$-modules of finite rank $m$ and $n$. Assume there is an isomorphism of $R$-modules $R^m \cong R^n.$

(a) Prove that if $R$ is commutative then $m = n$. You may assume without justification that this holds in the special case when $R$ is a field.
(b) Show, by example, than $m$ need not equal $n$ if $R$ is not assumed to be commutative.

##### *Proof*.
###### Part (a)
Let $I$ be a maximal ideal in $R$ and consider the residue field $R/I$. As $R^m\cong R^n$, we can tensor both sides to see $R^m\tensor I\cong R^n\tensor I$, and so $R^m/IR^m\cong R^n/IR^n$. As both of these are finitely dimensional vector spaces, they must have the same rank, and thus $m=n$. 
***
###### Part (b)
***
### Problem 6 – All Ideals Containing $(6, x^2 + x + 1)$
[[Problem – All Ideals Containing $(6, x2 + x + 1)$]]
## Section III: Linear Algebra and Field Theory
Solve two of the following three problems.
### Problem 7 #unfinished 
Suppose F is any field. Recall that a square matrix $A$ with entries in $F$ is nilpotent if  
$A^j = 0$ for some positive integer j.

(a) Prove that if $A\in Mat_{n\times n}(F)$ and $A$ is nilpotent, then $A^n = 0$.
(b) Find, with justification, the number of similarity classes of $5 \times 5$ nilpotent matrices with entries in F .

##### *Proof.*
Let $F$ be a field. 

###### Part (a)
Midterm problem, needs fleshing out
***
###### Part (b)
Let $A$ be a nilpotent $5\times 5$ matrix. There exists some $m\in\N$ such that $A^m=0$. Let $\lambda$ be an eigenvalue of $A$, and so $\lambda^m$ is an eigenvalue for $A^m=0$. As $F$ is a field and thus an integral domain, we see that $\lambda^n=0$ implies that $\lambda=0$ as well. 

As this holds in the algebraic closure of $F$ as well, we see that when factored into linear terms all the $\lambda=0$. Thus $\cp_A(x)=\cp_B(x)=x^5$. 

The possible invariant factors involving $x^5$ are 
1. $\{x,x,x,x,x\}$,
2. $\{x,x,x,x^2\}$,
3. $\{x,x,x^3\}$,
4. $\{x,x^2,x^2\}$,
5. $\{x,x^4\}$
6. $\{x^2,x^3\}$
7. $\{x^5\}$
However, in the first case the rank of $A$ would be $5$, making it invertible, contradicting the fact that 0 is an eigenvalue of $A$. Thus we need only consider the latter cases.
***

### Problem 8 #unfinished 
Let $L$ be the splitting field over $\Q$ of the polynomial $f(x) = x^5 + 2 \in \Q[x].$
(a) Find, with justification, $[L : \Q]$.
(b) Note that $w=-\sqrt[5]{2}$ (where $\sqrt[5]{2}$ is the unique positive, real fifth root of $2$) is one of the roots of $f (x)$. Prove $\Aut(\Q(w)/\Q)$ is the trivial group.

##### *Proof.*
Let $L$ be the splitting field over $\Q$ of the polynomial $f(x) = x^5 + 2 \in \Q[x].$

###### Part (a)
Note that $f$ is irreducible in $\Q[x]$ by Eisenstein's Criterion ($p=2$). The roots of $f$ are 
1. $\a_1=\sqrt[5]{2}e^{\pi i/5}$
2. $\a_2=\sqrt[5]{2}e^{3\pi i/5}$
3. $\a_3=\sqrt[5]{2}e^{5\pi i/5}=-\sqrt[5]{2}$
4. $\a_4=\sqrt[5]{2}e^{7\pi i/5}$
5. $\a_5=\sqrt[5]{2}e^{9\pi i/5}$

As $f$ is monic and irreducible it is the minimum polynomial of $\sqrt[5]{2}\in\Q[x]$. Let $F=\Q(\sqrt[5]{2})$, and notice $[F:\Q]=5$. Note that $F\subseteq\R$

Let $\z=e^{\frac{\pi i}{5}}$ be a primitive $10\th$ root of unity. This is the root a cyclotomic polynomial of degree $9$ which is irreducible in $\Q[x]$. As this has relatively prime order to $F$ it is irreducible there as well. Let $K=F(\z)$, and notice $[K:\Q]=40$. Notice that $\a_1\cdot\a_3\inv=\z$, and so $L=K$, completing the proof.

***
###### Part (b)
***

### Problem 9 – Separable, Factorization, and Irreducibility
[[Problem – Separable, Factorization, and Irreducibility]]