## Section I: Group theory
Solve two of the following three problems.  
### Problem 1 – Centralizers and Normal Subgroups
[[Problem – Centralizer, Normalizer, and Automorphism]]
### Problem 2 #unfinished

(a) Suppose $H$ is a [[Subgroup|subgroup]] of a [[Group|group]] $G$ and $[G : H] = 7$ (See: [[Index]]). Prove $G$ contains a [[Normal Subgroup|normal]] subgroup $N$ such that $N ⊂ H$ and $[G : N ] ≤ 7!$
(b) Prove $7!$ is the best possible bound for the previous part — i.e., prove there is a group $G$ and a subgroup $H$ with $[G : H] = 7$ such that for every normal subgroup $N$ of $G$ with $N ⊂ H$, we have $[G : N ] ≥ 7!$.

##### *Proof.*
##### Part (a)
Let $G$ act on $H$ by multiplication on left cosets. Thus $\rho: G\to\Aut(H)\cong S_7$. The kernel of this map is the set of all elements in $G$ such that $\rho(g)=\phi_g$ is the identity, meaning that $\phi_g(xH)=gxH=xH$ for all $xH\in G/H$. Then $x\inv gxH=H$ and $x\inv gx\in H$. 
***
###### Part (b)
***
### Problem 3 – Group of Order 168
[[Problem – Group of Order 168]]
## Section II: Rings, Modules and Linear Algebra  
Solve two of the following three problems.  
### Problem 4 – JCF and Similarity
[[Problem – JCF and Similarity]]
### Problem 5 – Annihilators and Generated Ideals
[[Problem – Annihilators and Generated Ideals]]
### Problem 6 – Linearly Independent Set Contained in Basis
[[Problem – Linearly Independent Set Contained in Basis]]
## Section III: Fields and Galois Theory
Solve two of the following three problems.
### Problem 7 #unfinished
Let $R$ be an integral domain with field of fractions $Q$. Let $P$ be a prime ideal of $R$ and let $$S =  \bigg\{ \frac rd\in Q|d\not\in P\bigg\}.$$(a) Show that $S$ is a subring of $Q$.
(b) Show that $$I =  \bigg\{ \frac pd|p\in P, d\not\in P\bigg\}$$ is a prime ideal of $S$.

##### *Proof*.
###### Part (a)
First, notice that since $P$ is prime, $R-P$ is multiplicatively closed. 
Let $x,y\in S$. Thus the denominators of $x$ and $y$ will still not be in $P$, making $S$ multiplicatively closed. 

***
###### Part (b)

***
### Problem 8 #unfinished
Prove $Z[2i] = \{a + 2bi | a \text{ and } b \text{ are integers}\}$ is not a PID. *Hint*: One method is to use (with proof) the fact that $2 + 2i$ is irreducible in this ring.

##### *Proof*.

***
### Problem 9 – Primitive Sixth Root of Unity
[[Problem – Primitive Sixth Root of Unity]]