## Section I: Group theory
Solve two of the following three problems.  
### Problem 1 – Group of Order 150
[[Problem – Group of Order 150]]
### Problem 2 – Unique Proper Normal Subgroup
[[Problem – Unique Proper Normal Subgroup]]
### Problem 3 – Normal Subgroup and Normalizer of Sylow
[[Problem – Normal Subgroup and Normalizer of Sylow]]
### Problem 4 #unfinished
Fix a prime number $p$, and let $A$ denote the abelian group of all complex roots of unity whose orders are powers of $p$; that is $$A = \{z \in \C | z^{p^n} = 1 \text{ for some integer } n \leq 1\} .$$Prove the following statements.
(a) Every non-trivial subgroup of $A$ contains the group of $p^{\text{th}}$ roots of unity.
(b) Every proper subgroup of $A$ is cyclic.
(c) If $B$ and $C$ are subgroups of $A$, then either $B \subseteq C$ or $C \subseteq B$.
(d) For each $n \geq 0$ there exists a unique subgroup of $A$ with $p^n$ elements.

##### *Proof.*
###### Part (a)
Let $H$ be a non-trivial subgroup of $A$. Then there exists some $z$ such that $z^{p^n}=1$. Then $z^{p^{n-1}}$ yields a primitive $p\th$ root of unity, which can be used to generate the other roots as well. Thus $H$ contains the $p\th$ roots of unity.
***
###### Part (b) 
Suppose $H$ is a proper subgroup of $A$, meaning it is missing some $p^{n{\th}}$ root of unity. But the subgroup of those roots of unity is cyclic and is generated by every element, so that entire subgroup must be missing. But that subgroup can be generated with any primitive root of a higher power of $p$, so $H$ must be finite and there must be some element of maximum order, which can be used to generate the whole group. Thus $H$ is cyclic. 
***
###### Part (c)
Suppose $B$ and $C$ are subgroups of $A$ such that $B\not\subseteq C$. Then $C$ is a proper subgroup of $A$, making it finite as seen above. If there exists a higher power of $p$ in $B$ then it generates $C$.  
***
###### Part (d)
Let $n\geq 0$. Then the subgroup generated by the $p^{n^{\th}}$ roots of unity have $p^n$ elements, and it is unique since it is generated by every such root. 
***
## Section II: Rings and Fields  
Solve two of the following three problems.  
### Problem 5 #unfinished
Let F be a field, and let $f (x) ∈ F [x]$. Recall that $f (x)$ is separable provided,  
for every extension field $K/F , f (x)$ has no multiple roots in $K$. (A multiple  
root is an element $α ∈ K$ such that $(x − α)^2 | f (x)$ in $K[x].)$

(a) Prove that $f (x) ∈ F [x]$ is separable if and only if $f (x)$ and its derivative $f'(x)$ are relatively prime in $F [x]$.
(b) Suppose that $f (x)$ is irreducible and that the degree of $f (x)$ is not a multiple of the characteristic of $F$. Prove that $f (x)$ is separable.

##### *Proof.*
###### Part (a) 
If two polynomials factor completely into linear factors, then they are relatively prime if and only if they have no linear factors in common, which is equivalent to their having no roots in common. Thus they cannot be generated by the same thing
***
###### Part (b) 
***
### Problem 6 #unfinished
Let $E$ be the splitting field of the polynomial $x^7 − 12$ over $\Q$. Find $[E : \Q]$,  
and describe the elements of $\Gal(E/\Q)$ explicitly.

##### *Proof*.
First, notice that $f(x)=x^7-12$ is irreducible in $\Q$, using Eisenstein's Criterion and $p=3$. By the Factor Theorem there are at most $7$ distinct roots of $f$. Notice that $\sqrt[7]{12}$ is one such root. 
The roots of $f$ are $\alpha_i=\sqrt[7]{12}e^{{(2\pi i/7)}^{2i-1}}$ for $1\leq i\leq 7$.

Given that $f$ is irreducible and monic in $\Q$, this makes $f$ the minimal polynomial of $\sqrt[7]{12}$ in $\Q$ and thus that $[\Q(\sqrt[7]{12}):\Q]=7$. 
Take a seventh root of unity, cyclo time, degree 6, for a grand total of 42, which is 2 times 3 times 7

***
### Problem 7 #unfinished
Let p be a prime number, let $\F_p$ be the field with $p$ elements, and let $n$ be a positive integer. Prove that $x^{p^n}- x =\prod_{d|n} g_d(x)$, where, for a positive divisor $d$ of $n$, $g_d(x)$ denotes the product of all monic irreducible polynomials of degree $d$ in $\F_p[x]$. (You may assume basic results on the structure of finite fields and their subfields.)

##### *Proof*.
***

### Problem 8 #unfinished
Let $R$ be a commutative [[Ring|ring]] with $1$. Recall that $r \in R$ is called [[Nilpotent|nilpotent]] i/f $r^n = 0$ for some integer $n > 0.$ Let $N$ be the set of nilpotent elements of $R$.
(a) Show that $N$ is an [[Ideal|ideal]] of $R$.
(b) Show that the ring $R/N$ has no nonzero nilpotent elements.
(c) For a polynomial $f(x) \in R[x]$, prove that $f(x)$ is a nilpotent element of $R[x]$ if and only if every coefficient of $f(x)$ is nilpotent.

##### *Proof*.
Let $R$ be a commutative ring with $1$ and Let $N$ be the set of nilpotent elements of $R$.

###### Part (a)
Let $r,s\in N$. Then $r^n=0$ and $s^m=0$ for $n,m\in\N$. Consider $(r+s)^{mn}$, which, by the binomial theorem, has each term raised to either the $n$th or $m$th power, sending the whole thing to $0$. 

Additionally, if $r\in N$ consider $r\inv=-r$ when viewed as an additive group. Notice $-r^{2n}=r(2n)=0$. 
Finally, let $x\not\in N$ and consider $(rx)^n=r^nx^n=0$, so $rx\in N$. 
Thus we have our ideal. 
***
###### Part (b)
Let $rN$ be a nilpotent element in $R/N$. Then $r^nN=N$, meaning $r^n\in N$. This means there exists some $m\in\N$ such that $r^{n^m}=r^{nm}=0$, placing $r\in N$. Thus all nilpotent elements in $R/N$ are actually $0$ (possibly four $0$'s in a trench coat).
***
###### Part (c)
Let $f\in R[x]$. 

First, suppose $f$ is a nilpotent element of $R[x]$. Thus $f^n=0$ for some $n\in\N$. By the binomial shenanigans every product of coefficients must to go $0$.  

Next, suppose every coefficient of $f$ is nilpotent. Let $n$ be equal to the product of all the smallest powers that send each coefficient to $0$. Thus by more binomial shenanigans we have $f^n=0$. 
***
## Section III: Linear Algebra and Modules
Solve two of the following three problems.
### Problem 9 #unfinished
Consider the following matrix over $\Q$:
$$\begin{bmatrix}-1&0&0&0\\0&-1&0&0\\-2&-2&0&1\\-2&0&-1&-2\end{bmatrix}$$
(a) Show that the characteristic and minimal polynomials of $A$ are, respectively, $(x + 1)^4$ and $(x + 1)^3$.
(b) Find the rational canonical form $R$ of $A$ and the Jordan canonical form $J$ of $A$.
(c) Find an invertible matrix $P$ such that $P\inv AP = J$.

##### *Proof*.
###### Part (a)
Let $A$ denote the above matrix.
***
###### Part (b)
As $\cp_A(x)=(x + 1)^4$ and $\mp_A(x)=(x + 1)^3$, we know that our characteristic polynomial factors into linear factors, so $A$ does indeed have a JCF. This also means that $A$ only has one elementary divisor, $(x + 1)^4$, which corresponds to the Jordan Block $J_4(-1)$, a matrix with $-1$s along the diagonal, $1$s along the subdiagonal, and $0$ everywhere else. This is the JCF of $A$. 
***
###### Part (c)
***
### Problem 10 – Field Extensions and Similar Transposes
[[Problem – Field Extensions and Similar Transposes]]
### Problem 11 – Modules and $m\leq n$ 
[[Problem – Modules and $mleq n$]]