## Section I: Group theory
Solve two of the following three problems.  

### Problem 1 – Largest Normal Subgroup (Left Action)
[[Problem – Largest Normal Subgroup (Left Action)]]
### Problem 2 – Odd Order and Conjugacy
[[Problem – Odd Order and Conjugacy]]
### Problem 3 #unfinished 
Groups of order 75.

(a) Prove that if $G$ is a group of order $75$ that contains an element of order $25$, then $G$ is cyclic.
(b) Prove there exists a non-abelian group of order $75$.

##### *Proof.*
Let $G$ be a group of order $75$.

###### Part (a)
Suppose $G$ has an element of order $25$. Let $H$ be the cyclic subgroup generated by this element, and notice that $[G:H]=3$, the smallest prime dividing the order of $G$. Thus $H\nsg G$. Let $K$ be a Sylow $3$-subgroup of $G$. Notice that this group has order $3$ and is thus cyclic as well. Thus we have $G\cong H\sdp_{\rho}K$, where $\rho:K\to\Aut(H)$ is a homomorphism. Note that $\Aut(H)\cong\Z^\times_{25}$, which is cyclic of order $20$. Since $|K| = 3$ and $\gcd(3,20) = 1$, we conclude that $\rho$ must be the trivial map. Hence, $G = H\times K$, which is a direct product of cyclic groups of relatively prime order. Hence, $G$ is cyclic.
***
###### Part (b)

***
## Section II: Field Theory and Galois theory  
Solve two of the following three problems.  
### Problem 4 – All Primitive Generators and Galois
[[Problem – All Primitive Generators and Galois]]
### Problem 5 – Irreducible Quartic and $p=k^2+1$
[[Problem – Irreducible Quartic and $p=k2+1$]]
### Problem 6 – Intersection of Splitting Fields
[[Problem – Intersection of Splitting Fields]]
## Section III: Fields and Galois Theory
Solve two of the following three problems.
### Problem 7 – Nilpotent Matrices and Similarity
[[Problem – Nilpotent Matrices and Similarity]]
### Problem 8 – $R[x]$ a PID iff $R$ a Field
[[Problem – Rx a PID iff R a Field]]
### Problem 9 #unfinished 
Find, with justification, a complete and non-redundant list of conjugacy class representatives for the group $\GL_2(\F_3)$, where $\F_3$ is the field with three elements.

##### *Proof.*
Let $\bF_3$ denote the field with three elements, and consider the group $\GL_2(\bF_3)$. 

Recall that matrices are in the same conjugacy class if and only if they are similar, and that two matrices are similar if and only if they share the same invariant factors. 

Let $A\in\GL_2(\bF_3)$. All characteristic polynomials are monic, and as $A$ is invertible we see the $a_0$ term in the $\cp_A(x)\neq0$, and thus $a_0$ is either $1$ or $2$, the only other elements in $\bF_3$. There are only so many monic polynomials of degree $2$ with coefficients in $\bF_3$; hence the only possible characteristic polynomials of $A$ are the following:
1. $f(x)=x^2+x+1$, 
2. $g(x)=x^2+x+2$, 
3. $h(x)=x^2+1$,
4. $j(x)=x^2+2$.
5. $k(x)=x^2+2x+1$.
6. $\ell(x)=x^2+2x+2$
Note that since $a_0\neq0$, 0 cannot be a root of any of these polynomials. Thus all that remains is to check $1$ and $2$.
***