## Section I: Group theory
Solve two of the following three problems.  
### Problem 1 #unfinished
Let $H$ and $K$ be groups. 
(a) Show that the direct product group $\Aut(H)\times \Aut(K)$ is isomorphic to a subgroup of $\Aut(H\times K)$.
(b) Give an example, with justification, of groups $H$ and $K$ for which $\Aut(H) \times\Aut(K)$ is not isomorphic to $\Aut(H\times K)$.

##### *Proof.*
Let $H$ and $K$ be groups. 

###### Part (a)
First, let $\psi\in\Aut(H)$ and $\phi\in\Aut(K)$. Let $\varphi:H\times K\to H\times K$ be defined by $\varphi(h,k)=(\psi(h),\phi(k))$. Let $(h,k)\in H\times K$. As $\psi,\phi$ automorphisms, there exist $h',k'$ such that $\psi(h')=h$ and $\phi(k')=k$. Thus we have surjectivity, and hence bijectivity, given the equal cardinalities.
The homomorphism element is verifiable, I'll do it later. Thus $\varphi$ is indeed an automorphism of $H\times K$.

Define $f:\Aut(H)\times \Aut(K)\to\Aut(H\times K)$ by $f(\psi,\phi)=\varphi$. 
Suppose two elements map to the same place. Then they were the same!
Thus, by the First Isomorphism, we have the result.
***
###### Part (b)

***
### Problem 2 #unfinished
Let $K$ be a normal subgroup of a group $H$. Recall that a group $G$ is solvable if there is a sequence of subgroups
$$1 = N_0\nsg N_1\nsg\dots\nsg N_j = G$$for some $j \leq 0$ such that for all $i \in \{0,\dots, j-1\}$ the quotient group $N_{i+1}/N_i$ is abelian.  
Show that if both $K$ and $H/K$ are solvable groups, then $H$ is solvable.

##### *Proof.*
Suppose that $G$ is solvable, and $H$ is a subgroup of $G$. Since $G$  
is solvable, it has a filtration: $$1 = N_0\nsg N_1\nsg\dots\nsg N_j = G$$ where  
$N_{i+1}/N_i$ is abelian. Let $H_{i} = H\cap N_i$. Since $N_i$ is normal in $N_{i+1}$, it is obvious  
that $H_i$ is normal in $H_{i+1}$.
***
### Problem 3 – All Groups of Order 45
[[Problem – All Groups of Order 45]]
## Section II: Rings, Modules and Linear Algebra  
Solve two of the following three problems.  
### Problem 4 – $\Z\sqrt{-3}$
[[Problem – Z Root -3]]
### Problem 5 – Modules and Maximal Ideals
[[Problem – Modules and Maximal Ideals]]
### Problem 6 – RCF and Determining Existence of JCF
[[Problem – RCF and Determining Existence of JCF]]
## Section III: Fields and Galois Theory
Solve two of the following three problems.
### Problem 7 – Field Extension of Odd Degree
[[Problem – Field Extension of Odd Degree]]
### Problem 8 #unfinished
Let $L/F$ be an extension of fields and let $a, b \in L$. Show that
$$\Aut(L/F (a, b)) = \Aut(L/F (a)) \cap \Aut(L/F (b)).$$
##### *Proof*.
Let $\s\in\Aut(L/F(a,b))$. Then $\s$ is an automorphism of $L$ that restricts to the identity on $F(a,b)$. As $F(a),F(b)\subseteq F(a,b)$ we see that $\s$ restricts both of these to the identity as well. Thus $\s\in\Aut(L/F (a)) \cap \Aut(L/F (b))$. 

Next, suppose $\s\in\Aut(L/F (a)) \cap \Aut(L/F (b))$. Thus $\s$ restricts to the identity on $F(a)$ and $F(b)$. Let $x\in F(a,b)$. 
***
### Problem 9 – Quartic and Non-Abelian Galois Group
[[Problem – Quartic and Non-Abelian Galois Group]]