## Section I: Group theory
Solve two of the following three problems.  

### Problem 1 #unfinished 
Let $G$ be a group of order $p^mq$ where $p$ and $q$ are distinct primes and $m \geq 1$. Assume that $G$ has at least one element of order $p^m$. Let $S$ be the set of all elements of $G$ of order $p^m$, that is $S = \{x \in G : |x| = p^m\}$.

(a) Prove that $G$ acts on $S$ by conjugation.
(b) Prove that if $Z(G) = \{e\}$ then $q$ divides $|S|$.

##### *Proof.*
Let $G$ be a group of order $p^mq$ where $p$ and $q$ are distinct primes and $m \geq 1$. Assume that $G$ has at least one element of order $p^m$. Let $S$ be the set of all elements of $G$ of order $p^m$

###### Part (a)
First, notice that $e\cdot x=exe=x$ for all $x\in S$. Next, let $g,h\in G$ and consider $gh\cdot x=ghx(gh)\inv=ghxh\inv g\inv=g\cdot(h\cdot x)$. Thus $G$ acts on $S$ by conjugation.
***
###### Part (b)
Suppose $Z(G)$ is trivial, and let $G$ act on $S$ by conjugation. Thus the orbits of this action correspond the normalizers of elements and the stabilizers correspond to the centralizers. Recall that the orbits of this action partition $S$, so we have$$|S|=\sum\limits_{x\in S}|\Orb_G(x)|$$for distinct orbits. However, by Orbit-Stabilizer we also have $|G|=|\Orb(x)|\cdot |\Stab(x)|$ for all $x\in S$. Now recall the Class Equation: $$|G|=|Z(G)|+\sum\limits_{g\in G}[G:C_G(g)]$$With all that out of the way, let $x,y\in S$. Notice that $x^{p^{m}}=e=y^{p^{m}}$ 

$xyx\inv$ 
***
### Problem 2 #unfinished 
Prove there are exactly three groups, up to isomorphism, of order $75$.

##### *Proof.*
Let $G$ be a group of order $75=3\cdot 5^2$.  

By Sylow's Theorem we know the following:
- $n_3|25$ and $n_{3}\equiv1\mod{3}$, so our options are $1$ and $25$.
- $n_5|3$ and $n_{3}\equiv1\mod{5}$, so there can only be one.
Let $P$ denote the unique Sylow $5$-subgroup, which has order $25$ and is normal in $G$. As $P$ is a group of order $p^2$ we know that it is abelian. Thus there are only two options for $P$ up to isomorphism: $\Z_5\times\Z_5$ and $\Z_{25}$.

Let $Q$ denote a Sylow $3$-subgroup. All Sylow $3$-subgroups are isomorphic to each other and there is only one group of order $3$, which is $\Z_3$. 

Suppose $P=\Z_{25}$. As $G = PQ$ and $P\cap Q = \{e\}$, we have that $G = P\sdp_\phi Q$, where $\phi : Q \to\Aut(P)$. Note that $\Aut(P)\cong\Z^\times_{25}$, which is cyclic of order $20$. Since $|Q| = 3$ and $\gcd(3,20) = 1$, we conclude that $\phi$ must be the trivial map. Hence, $G = P\times Q$.

Now suppose $P=\Z_5\times\Z_5$. 

***
### Problem 3 – Order $2^{m}\cdot 7$ Not Simple
[[Problem – Order $2{m}cdot 7$ Not Simple]]
## Section II: Rings, Modules and Linear Algebra  
Solve two of the following three problems.  
### Problem 4 – Prime in UFD, $\Z[\sqrt{-5}]$ not UFD
[[Problem – Prime in UFD, $Zsqrt{-5}$ not UFD]]
### Problem 5 (why is this true?) #unfinished 
Let $F$ be a field and $f(x) \in F[x]$ a monic polynomial of degree $n$. Prove: all matrices in $M_{n\times n}(F)$ having characteristic polynomial $f (x)$ are similar if and only if the irreducible factorization of $f(x)$ has no repeated factors.

##### *Proof*.
Let $F$ be a field, $f(x) \in F[x]$ a monic polynomial of degree $n$, and $A,B$ matrices in $M_{n\times n}(F)$ having characteristic polynomial $f(x)$.


***
### Problem 6 #unfinished 
Make $\R^3$ into a $\R[x]$-module by letting $f (x)v= f (A)v$ for any vector $v$ in $\R^3$, where $A$ is the matrix
##### *Proof*.
***
## Section III: Fields and Galois Theory
Solve two of the following three problems.
### Problem 7 – Relatively Prime Extension (a)
[[Problem – Relatively Prime Extension (a)]]
### Problem 8 – Algebraic Elements Closed
[[Problem – Algebraic Elements Closed]]
### Problem 9 – Cubic with Two Complex Roots
[[Problem – Cubic with Two Complex Roots]]