#### $\prop$ – Noetherian Properties
Let $R$ be a ring. The following are equivalent:

(a) $R$ is a [[Noetherian Ring|noetherian ring]].
(b) Every nonempty family of ideals has a [[Maximal Element|maximal element]] (under $\subseteq$).
(c) Every ascending [[Chain|chain]] of finitely generated ideals of $R$ stabilizes.
(d) Given any generating set $S$ for an ideal $I$, $I$ is generated by a finite subset of $S$.
(e) Every ideal of $R$ is finitely generated.

##### *Proof.*
(\ref{NR-1})$\Rightarrow$(\ref{NR-2}): We prove the contrapositive. Suppose there is a nonempty family of ideals with no maximal element. This means that we can keep inductively choosing larger ideals from this family to obtain an infinite properly ascending chain, so $R$ is not noetherian.

(\ref{NR-2})$\Rightarrow$(\ref{NR-1}): An ascending chain of ideals is a family of ideals, and the maximal ideal in the family indicates where our chain stabilizes.

(\ref{NR-1})$\Rightarrow$(\ref{NR-3}): Clear, since (\ref{NR-3}) is a special case of (\ref{NR-1}).

(\ref{NR-3})$\Rightarrow$(\ref{NR-4}): Let's prove the contrapositive. Suppose that there is an ideal $I$ and a generating set $S$ for $I$ such that no finite subset of $S$ generates $I$. So for any finite $S'\subseteq S$ we have $(S') \subsetneq (S) =I$, so there is some $s \in S \setminus (S')$. Thus, $(S') \subsetneq (S' \cup \{s\})$. Inductively, we can continue this process to obtain an infinite proper chain of finitely generated ideals, so (\ref{NR-3}) does not hold.

(\ref{NR-4})$\Rightarrow$(\ref{NR-5}): Clear.

(\ref{NR-5})$\Rightarrow$(\ref{NR-1}): Given an ascending chain of ideals 
$$I_1 \subseteq I_2 \subseteq I_3 \subseteq \cdots$$ 
let $I=\bigcup_{n\in \N} I_n$. In general, the union of two ideals might fail to be an ideal, but the union of a chain of ideals is an ideal (exercise). By assumption, the ideal $I$ is finitely generated, say $I=(a_1,\dots,a_t)$. Now since each $a_i$ is in $I$, it must be in some $I_{n_i}$, by definition. Thus for any $N \geqslant \max n_i$, we have $a_1, \ldots, a_t \in I_N$. But then $I_N=I$, and thus $I_n = I_{n+1}$ for all $n \geqslant N$. Thus the original chain stabilizes, and $R$ is noetherian.