#### $\thm$ – Lasker, 1905, Noether, 1921
Every ideal in a [[Noetherian Ring|noetherian ring]] admits a [[Primary Decomposition|primary decomposition]].

##### *Proof.*
We will say that an ideal is irreducible \index{irreducible ideal} if it cannot be written as a proper intersection of larger ideals. If $R$ is noetherian, we claim that any ideal of $R$ can be expressed as a finite intersection of irreducible ideals. If the set of ideals that are not a finite intersection of irreducibles were nonempty, then by noetherianity there would be an ideal maximal with the property of not being an intersection of irreducible ideals. Such a maximal element must be an intersection of two larger ideals, each of which are finite intersections of irreducibles, giving a contradiction.

We claim that every irreducible ideal is primary. If we show this, any decomposition into an intersection of irreducible ideals will be a primary decomposition. To prove the contrapositive, suppose that $Q$ is not primary, and take $xy\in Q$ with $x\notin Q$, $y\notin \sqrt{Q}$. The ascending chain of ideals $$(Q : y) \subseteq (Q : y^2) \subseteq (Q : y^3) \subseteq \cdots$$stabilizes for some $n$, since $R$ is moetherian. Note that this means that for any element $f \in R$, we have $y^{n+1} f\in Q \implies y^n f\in Q$. Using this, we will show that $${(Q + (y^n))\cap( Q +(x)) = Q},$$proving that $Q$ is not irreducible.
The containment $Q \subseteq (Q + (y^n))\cap( Q + (x))$ is clear. On the other hand, if $$a \in (Q + (y^n))\cap( Q + (x)),$$ we can write $a=q+by^n$ for some $q \in Q$, and $$a\in Q + (x) \implies ay \in Q + (xy) = Q.$$So$$b y^{n+1} = ay - qy \in Q \implies b \in (Q : y^{n+1}) = (Q : y^n).$$By definition, this means that $by^n \in Q$, and thus $a = q+by^n \in Q$. This shows that $Q$ is not irreducible, concluding the proof.