#### Problem 1
Let $k$ be any field and consider the subset $Z = \A^2_k \setminus \{(0,0)\}$ of $\A^2_k$. 

(1) Prove $Z$ is not an [[Affine Variety|affine variety]] if $k$ is infinite.
(2) Prove $Z$ is an affine variety if $k$ is finite.

##### *Proof.*
Let $k$ be any field and suppose $Z = \A^2_k \setminus \{(0,0)\}$ of $\A^2_k$. 

###### Part (1)
Let $k$ be infinite and suppose by way of contradiction that $Z$ is an affine variety. Then $Z=V(f_{1}\dots,f_{n})$ for some polynomials $f_i$. Then $f_{i}(x,0)=0$ for all $x\in\A_{k}^{2}$. Since $k$ is infinite, this yields infinitely many values of $f_{i}(x,0)$ that map to $0$, yielding infinite roots of this polynomial, this tells us $f_{i}$ must be equal to $0$. This means $(0,0)$ must also vanish on $f_i$ for all $i$, 
###### Part (2)
Suppose $k$ is finite. Then $\A^{2}_{k}$ and $Z$ are finite as well. Thus every point of $Z$ is a root of the polynomial   $$f(x)=\prod^n_{a_{i}\neq0}(x-a_{i}).$$Note that $f(0)\neq 0$ since we are in a field.
#### Problem 2
Let $X$ be a subset of $\A^m_k$ and $Y$ a subset of $\A^n_k$ and define$$ Z = \{(a_1, \dots, a_m, b_1, \dots, b_n) \in \A^{m+n}_k \mid (a_1, \dots, a_m) \in X, (b_1, \dots, b_n) \in Y\} \subseteq \A_k^{m+n}.$$(That is, loosely speaking, $Z = X \times Y$.)

(1) Prove or disprove: if $X$ and $Y$ are both affine varieties, then so is $Z$.
(2) Prove or disprove: if $Z$ is an affine variety, then so are both $X$ and $Y$.

##### *Proof.*
Let $X$ be a subset of $\A^m_k$ and $Y$ a subset of  $\A^n_k$ and let $Z$ be defined as above.

###### Part (1)
As $X$ and $Y$ are both affine varieties, $X=V(f_{1},\dots,f_{r})$ and $Y=V(g_{1},\dots,g_{s})$ for polynomials $f_i$ and $g_{j}$. We show $Z=V(f_{1},\dots,f_{r},g_{1},\dots,g_{s})$

Let $P \in Z$, so $P = (a_{1}, \dots , a_{m}, b_{1}, \dots , b_{n}) \in k^{n+m}$. Since $(a_{1}, \dots , a_{m}) \in X$ we have $f_{i}(a_{1}, \dots , a_{n}) = 0$ for  $1 \leq i \leq r$. So thinking of $f_{i}$ as a polynomial in $n + m$ variables, we have $f_{i}(P)= 0$ (since the $b_{i}$ don’t do anything). Similarly we have $g_{j} (P) = 0$ for $1 \leq j \leq s$. Hence $P\in V(f_{1},\dots,f_{r},g_{1},\dots,g_{s})$.

Now let $P \in V(f_{1},\dots,f_{r},g_{1},\dots,g_{s})$. So $f_{i}, g_{j}$ vanish at P for all $i,j$. Since the $f_{i}$ only involve $x_{1},\dots , x_{n}$, we have $f_{i}(a_{1}, . . . , a_{m}) = 0$ for all $i$, so $(a_{1},\dots , a_{m})\in X$. Similarly we see $(b_{1},\dots, b_{n})\in Y$ , so by definition $P\in Z$.

###### Part (2)


#### Problem 3
Let $X$ be the union of the three coordinate axes in $\A^3_k$.
(1) Find three polynomials that generate $I(X)$, and justify your answer.
(2) Prove that $I(X)$ cannot be generated by fewer than three polynomials. *Tip*: The polynomials you found in (a) should be homogeneous of degree two.

##### *Proof.*
Let $X$ be the union of the three coordinate axes in $\A^3_k$.

###### Part (1)
Consider the polynomials $xy,xz,yz$. Let $(a,b,c)\in X$. Thus any two of $a,b,c$ must be $0,$ meaning $xy,xz,yz$ vanish at this point, placing them in $I(X)$. Notice this also yields $X\sse V(xy,xz,yz)$. 

Now let $(a,b,c)\in V(xy,xz,yz)$. Thus $xy(a,b,c)=xz(a,b,c)=yz(a,b,c)=0$. If any two of $a,b,c$ were nonzero this equality would fail, and thus $(a,b,c)$ must lie on some coordinate axis. Thus $X=V(xy,xz,yz)$. This means any polynomial that vanishes on $X$ can be written as a linear combination of $xy,xz,yz$, and thus these three polynomials generate $I(X)$. 

###### Part (2)
As $I(X)=(xy,xz,yz)$, it is sufficient to show that this ideal cannot be generated by two elements. Suppose by way of contradiction that it can. Note that I am going to abuse a fair bit of quotient notation below. Where appropriate, just add the brackets for the equivalence classes. 

So $I=(f_{1},f_{2})$. Let $m=(x,y,z)$. Then in $k[x,y,z]/m=k$ we see that $(f_{1},f_{2})=I/mI$ as a $k$-module, so $\dim(I/mI)\leq2$. 

Unfortunately, $xy,xz,yz$ are linearly independent in $I/mI$. 

To see this, suppose with $axy+bxz+cyz=0$. Thus $$axy+bxz+cyz\in mI=(x^{2}y,xy^{2},xyz,y^{2}z,yz^{2},x^{2}z,xz^{2}).$$However, in the graded sense this means no element of $mI$ has degree less than three, and thus $a,b,c=0$ and $\dim(I/mI)\geq3$, which is a problem. Thus this ideal cannot be generated with two elements, completing the proof.

#### Problem 4
Recall that the [[Coordinate Ring|coordinate ring]] of an [[Affine Variety|affine variety]] $V$ in $\A^n_k$ is $A(V) = k[x_1, \dots, x_n]/I(V)$.

(1) With $X$, $Y$ and $Z$ as in problem (2) above, prove there is an isomorphism $A(Z) \cong A(X) \otimes_k A(Y)$ of rings; that is, $A(X \times Y) \cong A(X) \otimes_k A(Y)$.

For the sake of those who have not yet seen the definition of $- \otimes_k -$, I'll allow everyone to use the following without justification: 

>If $I$ is an ideal of $k[x_1, \dots, x_n]$ and $J$ is an ideal of $k[x_{n+1}, \dots, x_{n+m}]$, then there is an isomorphism of $k$-algebras $$\frac{k[x_1, \dots, x_n]}{I} \otimes_k \frac{k[x_{n+1}, \dots, x_{n+m}]}{J} \cong\frac{k[x_1, \dots, x_m]}{L}$$where $L$ is  $k[x_1, \dots, x_m] I + k[x_1, \dots, x_m]J$, i.e., the ideal of $k[x_1, \dots, x_m]$ generated by $I$ and $J$.

(2) If $X$ and $Y$ are *disjoint* affine varieties in $\A^n$, prove there is a ring isomorphism $$A(X \cup Y) \cong A(X) \times A(Y)$$
(3) For $X$ and $Y$ arbitrary affine varieties in $\A^n$, let $A(X) \times_{A(X \cap Y)} A(Y)$ denote the subring of $A(X) \times A(Y)$ consisting of all pairs $(f,g)$ such that the images of $f$ and $g$ under the canonical quotient maps $A(X) \onto A(X \cap Y)$ and $A(Y) \onto A(X \cap Y)$ are equal. Prove the  canonical map $A(X \cup Y) \to A(X) \times_{A(X \cap Y)} A(Y)$ (i.e., the map induced by the pair of canonical surjections $A(X \cup Y) \onto A(X)$ and $A(X \cup Y) \onto A(Y)$) is an isomorphism provided $I(X) + I(Y)$ is a radical ideal of $k[x_1, \dots, x_n]$. (Note that part (b) is the special case of this part in which $I(X) + I(Y) = \igen{1}.$)

(4) Disprove the previous assertion if we drop the assumption that $I(X) + I(Y)$ is a radical ideal. *Tip*: Consider a parabola and a line in the plane meeting tangentially. 

##### *Proof.*
###### Part (1)
I'm choosing not to do this part because it was originally supposed to involve tensors, which I don't  have much experience with. In time I hope that you can learn to forgive me.

###### Part (2)
Let $X,Y$ be disjoint affine varieties. Consider $I(X)+I(Y).$ 

By this [[Proposition – Unions of Vanishing Sets|Proposition]], we see $$I(X\cup Y)=I(X)\cap I(Y)=I(X)I(Y).$$If $f\in I(X)$ and $I(Y)$ then $f$ vanishes on all the points in $I(X)$ and $I(Y)$. 



#### Problem 5
Assume $X$ be any equidimensional affine variety. An element $f \in A(X)$ is called *geometrically regular* if  $V_X(f) \ne \emptyset$ and $V_X(f) \cap Y \subsetneq Y$ for each irreducible component $Y$ of $X$. Call a sequence of elements $f_1, \dots, f_c \in A(X)$ a *geometrically regular sequence* if $f_i$ is geometrically regular on $V_X(f_1, \dots, f_{i-1})$ for each $1 \leq i \leq c$.  (Each $V_X(f_1, \dots, f_{i-1})$ is equidimensional by a result proven in class.)

Prove that $$\operatorname{dim}(X) = \min\{d \mid \text{$V_X(f_1, \dots, f_d)$ is a finite set for some geometrically regular sequence $f_1, \dots, f_d \in A(X)$}\}.$$*Tip*: You might need to use prime avoidance.

#### Problem 6
Let $X$ be the set of all $2 \times 3$ matrices with entries in an algebraically closed field $k$ that have rank at most $1$, considered as a subset of $\A^6_k$. (You may identify $\A^6_k$ with the collection of all $2 \times 3$ matrices using any ordering you like.) Prove $X$ is an irreducible affine variety and find its dimension. 

##### *Proof.*
Let $X$ be the set of all $2 \times 3$ matrices with entries in an algebraically closed field $k$ that have rank at most $1$, considered as a subset of $\A^6_k$, the elements of which are of the form $$\begin{pmatrix}x&y&z \\ a & b& c\end{pmatrix}.$$Let $f=xb-ya$, $g=xc-za$, and $h=yc-zb$, and consider $V(f,g,h)$. 

Let $A\in X$. As $A$ has rank 1 one of its rows is a scalar multiple of the other, and thus it vanishes on $f,g$ and $h$. So $X\sse V(f,g,h)$. 
Now let $A\in V(f,g,h)$. So $xb-ya=xc-za=yc-zb=0$. Notice that this yields $a=x(\frac{b}{y})$, $b=y(\frac{c}{z})$, and $c=z(\frac{a}{x})$. However, we also see $\frac{b}{y}=\frac{c}{z}=\frac{a}{x}$ by the same equality above, making the second row of $A$ a scalar multiple of first. Thus $A$ has rank at most one. Hence $X=V(f,g,h)$, making it an affine variety. 

As $k$ is algebraically closed, by the [[Theorem – Strong Nullstellensatz|Strong Nullstellensatz]] we see $X=V(f,g,h)$ implies $I(X)=(f,g,h)$. Thus if we can show $(f,g,h)$ is prime in $k[x_{1},\dots,x_{6}]$ we will be in good shape. We now relabel our arbitrary matrix $$\begin{pmatrix}x_{1}&x_{2}&x_{3} \\ x_{4} & x_{5}& x_{6}\end{pmatrix}.$$for convenience. Thus 
- $f=x_{1}x_{5}-x_{2}x_{4}$
- $g=x_{1}x_{6}-x_{3}x_{4}$
- $h=x_{2}x_{6}-x_{3}x_{5}$

As $k[x_{1},\dots,x_{6}]$ is a UFD, by this [[Lemma – UFD height 1|Lemma]] we see $\height(f,g,h)>1$, as $(f,g,h)$ is not principal.

$f=xb-ya$, $g=xc-za$, and $h=yc-zb$
$f=xyk-yxk$, $g=xc-za$, and $h=yc-zb$,




We examine $A(X)=k[x_{1},\dots,x_{6}]/I(X).$ 