### Problem 5 – Maximal Linearly Independent
Let $R$ be a [[Commutative Ring|commutative]] [[Integral Domain|integral domain]] and $M$ an $R$-[[Module|module]]. Recall that a subset $S$ of $M$ is called a *maximal linearly independent* set of $M$ if $S$ is [[Linearly Independent|linearly independent]] and any subset of $M$ properly containing $S$ is linearly dependent.

(a) Let $T$ be a linearly independent subset of $M$. Prove that $T$ is contained in some maximal linearly independent subset of $M$.
(b) Let $T$ be a linearly independent subset of $M$ and $N$ the $R$-[[Submodule|submodule]] of $M$ [[Generator|generated]] by $T$. Prove that $T$ is a maximal linearly independent subset if and only if $M/N$ is torsion. (Recall that an $R$-module $P$ is called "torsion'' if for each $p \in P$, there is a $r \in R$ such that $r \ne 0$ and $rp = 0$.)

##### *Proof*.
###### Part (a)
Let $A$ be the set of all linearly independent subsets of $M$ that contain $T$. We can order $A$ with respect to inclusion. Let $X$ be a totally ordered subset of $A$, and let $U$ be the union of all elements in $X$. Let $\{u_i\}$ be a set of elements in $U$ such that $\sum_{i=0}^nr_iu_i=0$ for some $r_i\in R$, where $i\leq n$ for some $n\in\N$. As $U$ is the union of all elements in $X$, there exists some $B_1$ such that $u_1\in B_1$. However, as $X$ is totally ordered, there exists some $B_2$ such that $B_2$ contains $B_1$ and $u_2\in B_2$. Continuing in this way, we see that there exists some $B_n\in X$ such that $\{u_i\}\subseteq B_n$. As $B_n$ is linearly independent, we know that $\sum_{i=0}^nr_iu_i=0$ means that $r_i=0$ for all $i$. Thus $U$ is indeed linearly independent, making it an upper bound for $X$. Thus by [[Mathematics/Foundations/Results/Theorem – Zorn's Lemma|Zorn's Lemma]] there exists a maximal element of $A$, which we denote $S$. Thus $S$ is linearly independent, contains $T$, and is maximal.
***
###### Part (b)
$(\Rightarrow)$ Suppose $T$ is maximal linearly independent, and suppose by way of contradiction that $M/N$ is not torsion. Thus there exists some $xN\in M/N$ such that for all $r\in R$, we see that $rx\neq0$. However, as $x\neq 0$ and $x\not\in N$, this means that $x\not\in T$. Consider $T\cup\{x\}$. This set is linearly independent, contradicting the assumption that $T$ was maximal.

$(\Leftarrow)$ Suppose $M/N$ is torsion. Let $x\neq0\in M$ and consider $T\cup\{x\}$. Consider $x+N\in M/N$. As $M/N$ is torsion, there exists an $r\neq0\in R$ such that $rxN=0$. Thus $rx\in N$. (Note, if $x\in N$, then $r=1$). As $rx\in N$ and $N$ is generated by $T$ ($N=RT$), $rx=\sum r_it_i$. Subtracting over we see that $rx-\sum r_it_i=0$. But as $r\neq 0$, we see that each $t_i$ and $x$ are in $T\cup\{x\}$, but the sum is 0. Thus $T\cup\{x\}$ is linearly dependent.
***
#qual