#### $\prop$ – Submodules of f.g. Modules are f.g. when Noetherian
If $R$ is a [[Noetherian Ring|noetherian]] [[Commutative Ring|commutative]] [[Ring|ring]], then every [[Submodule|submodule]] of a finitely [[Generator|generated]] module is again finitely generated.

###### *Proof.* 
I will just prove the following special case (since it is all we need): 
For each $n \geq 1$, every submodule of $R^n$ is finitely generated. The base case $n=1$ holds by definition (and Lemma \ref{lem:Noeth}), since a submodule of $R^1$ is the same thing as an ideal.

Assume $n > 1$ and the result holds for $R^{n-1}$. Let $M$ be any submodule of $R^n$. Define
$$
\pi: R^n \onto R^1
$$
to be the projection onto the last component of $R^n$. The kernel of $\pi_n$ may be identified with $R^{n-1}$ and so $N := \ker(\pi) \cap M$ is a submodule of $R^{n-1}$, and it is therefore finitely generated by assumption.  The image $\pi(M)$ of $M$ under $\pi$ is a submodule of $R^1$, that is, an ideal of $R$, and so it too is finitely generated by assumption (and Lemma \ref{lem:Noeth}).

Furthermore, by the first isomorphism theorem $M/\ker(\pi)\cong \pi(M)$ is also finitely generated. By a homework problem, we deduce that $M$ is a finitely generated module.

% I'll just sketch the general case (which I don't think we'll actually need): let $T$ be any finitely generated $R$-module and $N \subseteq T$ any submodule.
% Since $T$ is finitely generated, there exists a surjective $R$-module homomorphism $q: R^n \onto T$ for some $n$. Then $q^{-1}(N)$ is a submodule of $R^n$ and
% hence it is finitely generated by the case we already proved. Moreover, $q$ induces a surjective $R$-module homomorphism $q: q^{-1}(N) \onto N$,
% and hence $N$ is isomorphic to a quotient of a finitely generated $R$-module and thus it is also finitely generated.
***